May 2.
The Basket of Flowers, or Piety, P-I-E-T-Y, Piety, P-I-E-T-Y, and Truth Triumphant, translated from the German with illustrations.
The Piety and Truth is sort of interesting there, because that was the point of a lot of books.
The children's book as we know it today entertains the music.
The earliest ones were taught and moralized.
That's very nice.
Richard H. U. N. E. Hun, The Story of Old London by George E. Sargent.
I'm glad you're doing this, because I think she labored in obscurity for so long, and I think what she did was a masterful thing.
I don't think it could ever be duplicated.
For one thing, the price of the books has skyrocketed, and it would just take a fantastic fortune to buy it.
And, you know, buying the books that have since disappeared, essentially, rather than pristine first edition is a real gift, too.
I mean, when you think in 50 years, who's going to have 500 golden books from the mid-20s?
Mid-20th century.
Nobody but us.
Yeah.
And when you say, see, she collected these things when nobody else did.
Mm-hmm.
That's why she could go into a book dealer and say, I'll take 2,000 books.
I'll take them all off your hands for $1,000.
And he'd say, great.
Did she keep records of her purchases?
I'm not sure if she did or not.
There's no way of knowing what she had into it.
See, I have no idea what's in my collection.
It's just a fragment of what hers was.
Was she a frugal woman?
Well, she didn't have a lot of places that her money was needed.
I mean, when she was here in Gainesville, she had a nice condo on a lake.
And she drove a fairly late model car, but her clothes certainly weren't that important to her.
Did you have a circle of friends, or did you keep pretty much to yourself?
She had some fairly good friends, yeah.
But I think they sort of, it was her agenda, basically, I think, when they were together.
book collecting, going around to antique places.
Kindred spirits, I would agree.
Yeah.
You did say, and I don't know if I have the machine on, but she had a sense, you perceived a sense of her own self or self-importance.
She perhaps really thought that she was creating something great and monumental.
Is that what you were suggesting, do you think?
Well, I don't know.
I mean, I'm sure she had some idea of the value of it and what it was, you know, the importance of what it was.
When I made that comment, I think it was more, her life was so focused on this that she didn't, I didn't get the sense that she had time or wanted to give time to much of anything else, including people.
You know, this was, this really... It was a mission.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it was a mission.
It was a passion.
It was just the total focus of her life.
I'm sorry I missed talking to her.
Would you talk about it?
I think she would have.
I don't know.
She may not have wanted a book to be written about the library, and she may have.
That's hard for me to read.
I don't know if she would have or not.
I mean, if any kind of publicity is going to bring inquiry, I would imagine.
So she might have felt like that.
She might not have liked that.
Although she felt underappreciated.
And yet over here.
Well, here.
And yet she was in some respects the major roadblock.
Do you want to ask her to call Gus?
Do you want to see if he's there?
Yeah, you can call him.
Why not do it, though?
Go ahead.
Okay, this is the first inscription that stuck with me when I started cataloging the books and really made me think about the person who actually wrote it and why he bought that book and why he presented it to this person.
And it's dated 1874, January 1st.
And the first is spelled out, F-I-R-S-T.
And the inscription reads, presented to Mrs. Drabble.
D-R-A-B-L-E.
One B.
Right.
D-R-A-B-L-E.
By Edward Bailey.
B-A-I-L-E-Y.
As a token of respect on her wedding day.
Isn't that lovely?
Now, we found it interesting, or I found it interesting, because I wondered why he had dressed her as Mrs. Drabble.
Was that her married name?
Was she had assumed that day?
And it just made me think about what relationship... With such time either.
No, Edward had had to Mrs. Drabble.
Why he didn't call her by her first name,
Was it a teacher or someone?
In that case, it seemed sort of an odd gift to give as a wedding present.
And the name of the book is A Child's Life of Our Savior.
It's a biography of Jesus Christ.
By?
By Reverend J. Burbage.
Reverend J. B-U-R-B-I-D-G.
Oh, you've written that down.
And another interesting thing about this book is that the inscription is upside down on the back flyleaf.
And I assumed it was a mistake.
And I wondered how he felt.
when he realized that this book he had bought for this woman on her wedding day and so thoughtfully signed, and he closed it and he had discovered that he had done it upside down.
He did it again.
On the back.
See, you know, it was that tag there.
No, that was a... This may be a later bookseller.
I have a feeling he just opened it up and very carefully wrote it out here.
And here it was upside down.
And he used her married name.
He used her married name, yeah.
That's great.
And so you just have to wonder.
You just have to wonder.
That's what a book does.
What is the relationship with these two people?
See, this book had one life, and now it's got another life with the speculation more than 100 years later.
Right.
Just let me hold it for a second.
Let's take a look at it.
You did copy the stuff for me.
And then it was signed, by the way.
Well, that's a different name.
That's a subsequent element, I think.
So it had several lives, hasn't it?
Right.
Sheffield.
I think it's British.
It doesn't say the city, either, does it?
Well, that's Sheffield is definitely English, I would guess.
So it could be English, you know?
Yeah.
Probably is.
Go ahead.
Say that again.
I liked Dr. Baldwin to the core of her feisty little being.
I think she was a wonderful person.
She was not without a sense of humor.
And the way she could focus in and go after these books was really an inspiration to me.
How did she express her sense of humor?
You said she had a sense of humor.
Well, it was a little satirical and ironical.
It was not slapstick by any stretch of the imagination.
But she just would tell the most interesting stories, little ironies that had happened that she picked out.
Did she have any good book stories about finding things, great finds type things like that?
Well, not so much great finds, it was just interesting finds.
For example, the bookstore in Michigan that she went into and bought the whole back room of children's books, and how she had to box them up and carry them by trips in her station wagon to this little cabin, which is where they happened to be at the time they were visiting this cabin in Michigan.
And I'm sure her sister could give you many, many more.
This story probably came up when she learned that you were from Michigan.
Right.
Oh, when I was in Michigan.
Well, I grew up.
I grew up on a farm around Champaign, and she grew up in Champaign.
So you were probably talking about mutually familiar places.
Yeah, well, it was interesting.
She sat often in the afternoon and just talked to me about, you know, her life, her father, her sister.
What did she say about her father?
Anything you... A lot of what I've told you.
Did she reveal sides of herself, or was she kind of protective?
About her father?
Well, about her private side, her family side.
No, she was amazingly open.
Well, she was very open about things that had happened to her.
As far as how she felt about those things, she wasn't quite so forthcoming.
But, I don't know, she was in a talkative mood some of those afternoons, and she'd tell stories.
And I regret to this day I didn't have a tape recorder.
Yeah, I wish she did.
But I'm sure Cynthia could give you a lot of...
That's the first time.
Personal anecdotes, yeah.
Melissa's downstairs.
Do you mind if I chat with her briefly?
She may not be down where we were.
Okay.
She is usually down on the first place.
Melissa Davis, I think.
And you worked with her for how long, would you say?
About a year.
Do you have any recollections of her, how you felt about her, what kind of lady she was?
I thought she was great.
She was very crusty, you know.
Crusty?
Crusty.
You know, I mean, you didn't quite know
how she would take you being around her.
But I was always taught to respect my elders, and I never had her get angry at me.
I mean, she did get angry easily.
What kinds of things got her angry?
Oh, anything.
Anybody messing with her books, her collection.
Messing with respect you're touching or handling?
Getting near them, anything to do with her budget.
Doing what?
With her budget, or just generally
I mean, the program.
What was your job?
What was your position?
I was secretary.
So you were kind of closely with her.
Did she have a secretary with her?
Yes, she did.
What kinds of things amused her, would you say?
I don't know.
She would mainly talk to me about my kids.
Did she like kids?
Yes, she did.
I'm told that she was kind of standoffish.
She certainly didn't want any of them in your books, didn't she?
Right.
No, she did let my little boy come in.
Your little boy?
And she talked to him and she even gave him a couple of books that she had copies of.
Oh, that was it.
Were you surprised by that?
Yeah, a little bit, because I didn't know how she would take it.
She preferred him to be out in the annex, you know, where the not-so-valuable books are kept out.
But she did let him use some of the books and look at them.
Did she ever talk about her collection, her books?
Do you remember anything she might have said about what she was doing, what she was trying to accomplish?
Not really.
And what was that gentleman?
Can you just tell me what you were told about that story from the frat boy?
I was trying to think about it.
They told him to come in.
A fellow from one of the fraternities came in, and he asked to see Dr. Baldwin.
Yes, but I can't really remember.
The story is that she was dead, I guess, at that point, and that he was relieved.
And the reason he wanted to see her was because that's one of the initiation rites?
Yeah, he had to come in to the library and ask her to use some of the books.
And when I told him she had passed away, he was relieved, like you said.
But I mean, that kind of tells you how scared they were of the reputation she had for eating people's heads off, right?
And did she have a temper?
Yes, she did.
And when she showed it, how did she show it?
She screamed.
What kinds of things?
She yelled.
I mean, just whatever she wanted to say.
I mean, she had no qualms about speaking her mind and letting me know.
Tell me, like, what kind of thing would get a man that would really occasion her to really scream or something?
Yeah.
I saw just somebody, just a professor sending over a student to use a book to make her mad.
She didn't like that.
She didn't want students who were in her book.
She did not.
Okay, Melissa, I think that's good.
That's great.
Thank you very much.